We've covered how to run multiple
applications within a single model repo.
Then we went on to see how to
actually consume a single component
across multiple applications.
What I want to do now is
just take a brief moment and
I want to introduce nest ITO the mix.
So we're gonna walk through a few slides.
And then we're just gonna get back to
what we were doing, which is programming.
And I would have to say that,
in my opinion,
nest is probably one of the best
things that ever happened.
To angular, and
if you are not familiar with NAS,
then you are in for a treat.
So, we already saw how to
mock an API with JSON server.
The challenge with that is
You will never actually use
JSON server to do anything real.
It is merely just a placeholder until
you have an opportunity to get a quote
unquote real server in place.
Now, the difference is we're
making this transition and
the reason why I'm talking about
this in the context of an.
Angular workshop is going to become
very apparent very quickly and
anybody who's worked with nest, just
bite your tongue don't spoil the movie.
Because I think if you haven't
heard of nest, it's pretty crazy.
So Mark API's.
Think of this as the Hello nest module.
And so, on their website it
provides an out-of-the-box
application blah blah blah blah
blah you just go straight to.
The bottom, and it says the architecture
is heavily inspired by Angular.
Now there are some things
that I really like.
It certainly comes with architecture.
So if you've ever used express,
there's not a lot of architecture
that comes with that.
But ness was written to be
highly testable, scalable.
Loosely coupled and easily maintainable.
So pretty much at that point,
I just basically held my hand
out to Camille who wrote I said,
You had me at hello, take my money.
And so the architecture is
heavily inspired by Angular.
So we have nest,we have Angular.
And let's walk through this real quick.
What do we love about Angular?
Well, it uses TypeScript My
favorite thing about it's
a reactive framework,
so under the hood yes.
I love love love observables.
Great tooling.
Leverages dependency injection, I think
this is a really, really good pattern.
Clean abstractions, and
if you're comfortable with Angular,
you already know Nest.
So allow me to prove my point.
This is And what,
what are we looking at, Is it Angular?
Is it nest, well, it's nest, but
it looks just like Angular.
Also nest just Like Angular, in so much.
Has anybody ever seen this?
It's not mg module, but it is module,
and now one more thing It comes
with a ton of functionality.
So you get swagger,
dedication with passport.
Get entities with TypeORM, GraphQL
support, Realtime Data with Socket.IO.
Microservice support and
Fastify Support And so
I'm not going to go through
every piece of this.
This will be in the slides
that I'll upload.
So we're gonna press pause here
and One second.
Every time I do that,
I just waive putting that up there.
So we're going to do instead
of going through the slides,
you can download the PDF.
You go through it I
talked about it's cool.
I think the better thing to do
is let's hop into the code.
And let's generate some stuff.
So from the command line,
let me open up a new one.
All right now.
From the command line we're
gonna do a few things.
I'm gonna add this uuid package.
And when this is done,
As always add something in, and
then it just starts getting angry.
Anyways there we go
What I'm just gonna pause these for
a second.
So this can do its thing, all right.
I'm gonna add one more here and
this is gonna be nest js.
Mapped types.
Now, if this workshop was a movie,
this is what we would
call foreshadowing and
character development because.
This is about to get awesome.
From here from the command line.
Let's generate some stuff.
And I used to do this kind
of piece by piece, and
recently within the last couple
weeks By last couple weeks,.
I mean, October of 2020 just
to kind of timestamp that, so
it's not 2022 and
they're like this just came out.
They introduced the schematics for
resources.
And so what I can do here Is I can
set the type, which is gonna be rest,
but you can do graph QL.
We're gonna do crud if it's true and
we're gonna set the source
route to apps API source.
And let's let This fly all right,
from here.
Let's look into our code.
We'll just kind of close all this down,
and we'll hop up into our API.
And let's see what this looks like.
So now we have a widgets folder.
And within the widgets folder, we have
our module and we have a controller.
And so in a controller when you decorate
a method This now becomes your endpoint.
Login, so now it's like this is
your endpoint up here, widgets, but
then these are the verbs.
And so the verbs,
your restful verbs get routed to these
particular functions,
which then if you look in your service.
Then it's doing some stuff in here.
And so now we have basically in about 30
seconds generated 90% of a REST API.
The difference being I would put this
in production Not I would, I have.
Nest is amazing,
it's built on top of Express.
But using the schematics inside of Nx,
I'm able to generate all this stuff for
free.
Ready to go.